# Sketsy
Demo: [Sketsy](https://Rao-Sanjayy.github.io/Sketsy)

Sketch recognition has attracted the increasing interest of many researchers for its broad application prospect. The current project falls in the domain of Deep Learning, Computer Vision, Education and Child psychology. Sketch recognition is a tough task compared to the usual image recognition. The uprising of smartphones with touch screens and the recent pandemic have enabled the mode of education online even for kids. Bringing education to the tip of the finger for every child is revolutionary. Educators are gradually realizing that phones can be used as learning tools. Phones have evolved into influential teaching aids over time, and when used correctly, they can enhance learning development. In a study published by Harvard University, researchers have found that doodling improves memory, relieves stress, and increases focus. These are all integral aspects of succeeding in school, and educators are beginning to take notice. Conventional ways of learning don’t work for all students, and doodling can be a novel way of improving a student’s ability to learn. In fact, some teachers are even beginning to integrate doodling into their classroom curriculum because it is so beneficial for students.

The project is a creative and interactive model which will help children build confidence, creativity and knowledge. The project aims to bridge the gap between a child’s creativity and technology and also to create a meaningful whole experience through our doodling game. Doodles and sketches by kids often interest psychologists because they represent a child’s state of mind, learning curve and emotional capabilities. Doodling promotes catharsis i.e., a process of venting out strong, repressed emotions. This aids in mental wellbeing and child development, similar to art therapy & dream therapy. Doodling can sometimes bring out the suppressed emotions to the surface by helping kids tap into their hearts.

Our game could be a source of regular tracking of a child’s development by parents as well. Our application would create a  meaningful whole experience through the doodling game and help the kids grow as they doodle across the application. It would create an environment where the kids learn new words, improve their creative skills and bear the benefits of experiential learning.
